README.md, before:

# Shared Commits

## Add the commit to the code you are sharing in this readme file

## After submitting your commit, add a line to this readme file describing the commit, and a link to your markdown file

-   Anna Moy - I created a Vignette for Dplyr - <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Anna_Moy_CREATE_Tidyverse.Rmd>

-   Amanda Fox - Use jsonlite and tidyr to automate acquiring, cleaning, transforming, and exporting weekly datasets from NYT API for aggregation and data mining, machine learning:

    <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/main/Recipe_tidyr_jsonlite_Fox.qmd>

-   Naomi Buell - I created a Vignette for the **forcats** package: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/DATA607_TidyVerseCREATE%20_Buell.qmd>

-   Semyon Toybis - I created a vignette that uses the mutate function and stringr package from the TIDYVERSE to extract data from airline flight reviews, allowing for further analysis: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/tidyverse_create_semyon_toybis.Rmd>

-   Ursula Podosenin - I created a vignette that focuses on the filter, group and mutate functions: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/TidyVerse_Part_One.Rmd>

-   Kaylie Evans - Using the ggplot2 package, the following vignette was created: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/KaylieEvansCREATE.Rmd>

-   Will Berritt - I created a Vignette for dplyr and ggplot2 packages: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/berritt_tidyverse_create.Rmd>

-   Puja Roy - I created a Vignette for readr, dplyr and ggplot2 packages: <https://github.com/pujaroy280/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Puja_Roy_Tidyverse_CREATE_assignment.Rmd>

-   Atta Boateng - I did a vigette for ggplot: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Atta_Boateng_Data_607_Tidyverse.rmd>

-   Natalie Kalukeerthie - I created a vignette for the ggplot2 package: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Data_607_tidyverse_create_natalie_kalukeerthie.Rmd>

-   Andrianina David Raharijao - I created a vignette for the dyplir and ggplot2 package: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Tiddyverse_assignment_David.Rmd>

-   Keith DeNivo - *inadvertently* also created a vignette for forcats. <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Keith_DeNivo_tidyverse_assignment.Rmd> using this dataset <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/cardekho.csv> factors used were the number of car owners.

-   Rashad Long - I created a vignette for the purrr package discussing the map() function: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Vignette_PURR_Rashad_Long.qmd> <br />

**Chhiring Lama** - < https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/DATA607_TidyVerseCREATE%20_Buell.Rmd > 
- Chhiring Lama - I have pushed a .jpg and .csv file for ML presentation. <br />
- Chhiring Lama - Added two code blocks on Naomi Buell's Tideverse CREATE Assignment; commited and pushed to remote repository. 

-   Fares Alahdab - I created a vignette that shows the use of mutate, group_by, summarise, ggplot2, and cor() in a heart failure dataset: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/607_Tidyverse_GitHubColab_Fares_Alahdab.qmd>
- Fares Alahdab (part-2): using the interesting dataset on NY shooting incidents and associated RMD file (https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/TidyverseCreateAssignment.Rmd), I made the following edits:
    (1)- I added the variable "STATISTICAL_MURDER_FLAG" to the variables kept from the main dataset when filtering as that seems important.
    (2)- The second bar plot for the victim age groups was missing the vic_age_distribution so I added it to code chunk 7.
    (3)- Using dplyr and ggplot2, I added a heat map showing the frequency of incidents by both the perpetrators' and victims' age groups.
    (4)- Focusing on th sexes, I added a bar chart plotting the proportions of murders stratified by the perpetrators' and victims' sexes.

Commit message:

Update README.md w/ description of my extension to Keith's vignette.

README.md, after:

# Shared Commits

## Add the commit to the code you are sharing in this readme file

## After submitting your commit, add a line to this readme file describing the commit, and a link to your markdown file

-   Anna Moy - I created a Vignette for Dplyr - <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Anna_Moy_CREATE_Tidyverse.Rmd>

-   Amanda Fox - Use jsonlite and tidyr to automate acquiring, cleaning, transforming, and exporting weekly datasets from NYT API for aggregation and data mining, machine learning:

    <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/main/Recipe_tidyr_jsonlite_Fox.qmd>

-   Naomi Buell - I created a Vignette for the **forcats** package: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/DATA607_TidyVerseCREATE%20_Buell.qmd>

-   Semyon Toybis - I created a vignette that uses the mutate function and stringr package from the TIDYVERSE to extract data from airline flight reviews, allowing for further analysis: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/tidyverse_create_semyon_toybis.Rmd>

-   Ursula Podosenin - I created a vignette that focuses on the filter, group and mutate functions: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/TidyVerse_Part_One.Rmd>

-   Kaylie Evans - Using the ggplot2 package, the following vignette was created: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/KaylieEvansCREATE.Rmd>

-   Will Berritt - I created a Vignette for dplyr and ggplot2 packages: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/berritt_tidyverse_create.Rmd>

-   Puja Roy - I created a Vignette for readr, dplyr and ggplot2 packages: <https://github.com/pujaroy280/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Puja_Roy_Tidyverse_CREATE_assignment.Rmd>

-   Atta Boateng - I did a vigette for ggplot: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Atta_Boateng_Data_607_Tidyverse.rmd>

-   Natalie Kalukeerthie - I created a vignette for the ggplot2 package: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Data_607_tidyverse_create_natalie_kalukeerthie.Rmd>

-   Andrianina David Raharijao - I created a vignette for the dyplir and ggplot2 package: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Tiddyverse_assignment_David.Rmd>

-   Keith DeNivo - *inadvertently* also created a vignette for forcats. <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Keith_DeNivo_tidyverse_assignment.Rmd> using this dataset <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/cardekho.csv> factors used were the number of car owners.
    - Naomi Buell extended Keith's vignette for forcats by adding how to add and drop factor levels.

-   Rashad Long - I created a vignette for the purrr package discussing the map() function: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/Vignette_PURR_Rashad_Long.qmd> <br />

**Chhiring Lama** - < https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/DATA607_TidyVerseCREATE%20_Buell.Rmd > 
- Chhiring Lama - I have pushed a .jpg and .csv file for ML presentation. <br />
- Chhiring Lama - Added two code blocks on Naomi Buell's Tideverse CREATE Assignment; commited and pushed to remote repository. 

-   Fares Alahdab - I created a vignette that shows the use of mutate, group_by, summarise, ggplot2, and cor() in a heart failure dataset: <https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/607_Tidyverse_GitHubColab_Fares_Alahdab.qmd>
- Fares Alahdab (part-2): using the interesting dataset on NY shooting incidents and associated RMD file (https://github.com/pkowalchuk/SPRING2024TIDYVERSE/blob/main/TidyverseCreateAssignment.Rmd), I made the following edits:
    (1)- I added the variable "STATISTICAL_MURDER_FLAG" to the variables kept from the main dataset when filtering as that seems important.
    (2)- The second bar plot for the victim age groups was missing the vic_age_distribution so I added it to code chunk 7.
    (3)- Using dplyr and ggplot2, I added a heat map showing the frequency of incidents by both the perpetrators' and victims' age groups.
    (4)- Focusing on th sexes, I added a bar chart plotting the proportions of murders stratified by the perpetrators' and victims' sexes.
